This is the README file for the SMORE toast run.

This is a small example set including nematode tRNAs on chromosome X.

This folder contains two subfolders, input and output. The output was created by calling SMORE toast on the input files.
The programm call is the following:
SMORE toast requires the output of SMORE prep as input!

SMORE toast --out output --prep input --newick input/tree8species.newick

The output folder contains several files. The files are listed in the following in several categories. The text in brackets gives a short description for each file. For more detailed information, we refer to the manual on www.github.de/AnneHoffmann/Smore

The output contains the following main output files:
Summary.txt (Summary of the run with running time and basic information about the input data.)
OutTree.txt (The final tree in newick format with labels at the inner nodes containing the event counts.)
errors_smoreprep.txt (List of errors that might have occured. If empty, no error occured.)
errors_smoretoast.txt (List of errors that might have occured. If empty, no error occured.)
allClusters_joined.txt (List of original clusters, hence the cluster number together with all its elements.)
allClusters_original.txt (List of joined clusters, hence the cluster number together with all its elements.)
specieslist (List of species)
list_genesfiles (List of files in genes folder)

The output folder contains the following additional output files:
allTypes.txt (List of types of functional genes that were included during the analysis.)
allPseudoTypes.txt (List of types of pseudogenes that were included during the analysis.)
geneticEvents.txt (List of counts for genetic events as depicted in the tree, too.)
list_cographs.txt (List of graphs that have a cograph structure.)
list_noncographs.txt (List of graphs that do not have a cograph structure and needed to be edited.)
remoldings.txt (Elements that have the same type but a low similarity score.)
inremoldings.txt (Elements that have different types but a high similarity score.)
The following are list about counts of evolutionary events for functional and pseudo genes. These files are used to summarize the counts at the tree.
singletons.txt
pseusingletons.txt
deletions.txt 
pseudodeletions.txt
duplications.txt
insertions.txt
pseudoinsertions.txt
matches.txt
pseudomatches.txt
missinganchors.txt
pseudomissing.txt
nones.txt
pseunones.txt


The output contains the following subfolders:
data_iTOL (This folder includes files that can be used to visualize the output tree. On http://itol.embl.de/upload.cgi the file F0tree.txt can be downloaded. All other files can be added by drag-and-drop in order to visualize the tree and all its numbers. The tree can be edited and downloaded in different formats.)

Using the files in data_iTOL on http://itol.embl.de/upload.cgi,
the final tree can be visualized and edited. The following files provide examples based on the example data set:
sbRNA8chrXbake.pdf
sbRNA8chrXbake.svg